---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 1
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-06-15
status: draft
---
# Scroll of Creation
## Chapter 1  
### The Beginning
#### 1  [gen\_c1v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v1.md>)
In the beginning, Elohim created the heavens and the earth.
#### 2  [gen\_c1v2](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v2.md>)
And the earth became without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of Elohim was hovering over the face of the waters.
### Day One
#### 3  [gen\_c1v3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v3.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let there be light,” and there was light.
#### 4  [gen\_c1v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v4.md>)
And Elohim saw the light, that it was good; and Elohim divided the light from the darkness.
#### 5  [gen\_c1v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v5.md>)
And Elohim called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. And there was evening, and there was morning — day one.
### The Second Day
#### 6  [gen\_c1v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v6.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.”
#### 7  [gen\_c1v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v7.md>)
And Elohim made the firmament, and He divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament; and it was so.
#### 8  [gen\_c1v8](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v8.md>)
And Elohim called the firmament Heavens. And there was evening, and there was morning — the second day.
### The Third Day
#### 9  [gen\_c1v9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v9.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear.” And it was so.
#### 10  [gen\_c1v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v10.md>)
And Elohim called the dry land Earth, and the gathering together of the waters He called Seas; and Elohim saw that it was good.
#### 11  [gen\_c1v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v11.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let the earth bring forth grass, herb yielding seed, and fruit tree producing fruit after its kind, whose seed is in it, upon the earth.” And it was so.
#### 12  [gen\_c1v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v12.md>)
And the earth brought forth grass, herb yielding seed after its kind, and tree producing fruit, whose seed is in it, after its kind; and Elohim saw that it was good.
#### 13  [gen\_c1v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v13.md>)
And there was evening, and there was morning — the third day.
### The Fourth Day
#### 14  [gen\_c1v14](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v14.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for appointed times, and for days, and years.”
#### 15  [gen\_c1v15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v15.md>)
“And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heavens to give light upon the earth.” And it was so.
#### 16  [gen\_c1v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v16.md>)
And Elohim made the two great lights — the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night — and the stars also.
#### 17  [gen\_c1v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v17.md>)
And Elohim set them in the firmament of the heavens to give light upon the earth.
#### 18  [gen\_c1v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v18.md>)
To rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness; and Elohim saw that it was good.
#### 19  [gen\_c1v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v19.md>)
And there was evening, and there was morning — the fourth day.
### The Fifth Day
#### 20  [gen\_c1v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v20.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let the waters swarm with swarming living creatures, and let flying creatures fly above the earth across the face of the firmament of the heavens.”
#### 21  [gen\_c1v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v21.md>)
And Elohim created the great sea monsters, and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarmed, according to their kinds, and every winged flying creature according to its kind; and Elohim saw that it was good.
#### 22  [gen\_c1v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v22.md>)
And Elohim blessed them, saying: "Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas; and let the flying creatures multiply in the earth."
#### 23  [gen\_c1v23](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v23.md>)
And there was evening, and there was morning — the fifth day.
### The Sixth Day
#### 24  [gen\_c1v24](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v24.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds: livestock, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth, each according to its kind.” And it was so.
#### 25  [gen\_c1v25](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v25.md>)
And Elohim made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and every creeping thing on the ground according to its kind; and Elohim saw that it was good.
#### 26  [gen\_c1v26](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v26.md>)
And Elohim said, “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the flying creatures of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.”
#### 27  [gen\_c1v27](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v27.md>)
And Elohim created the man in His own image; in the image of Elohim He created him — male and female He created them.
#### 28  [gen\_c1v28](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v28.md>)
And Elohim blessed them. And Elohim said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it. And rule over the fish of the sea, and over the flying creatures of the heavens, and over every living creature that moves upon the earth.”
### The Giving of Food
#### 29  [gen\_c1v29](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v29.md>)
And Elohim said, “Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed — to you it shall be for food.”
#### 30  [gen\_c1v30](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v30.md>)
“And to every beast of the earth, and to every flying creature of the heavens, and to every creeping thing on the earth in which is a living soul — I have given every green plant for food.” And it was so.
#### 31  [gen\_c1v31](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v31.md>)
And Elohim saw all that He had made — and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning — the sixth day.
### The Seventh Day
#### 32  [gen\_c1v32-34](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 1/gen_c1v32-34.md>)
Thus the heavens and the earth were completed, and all their array.
#### 33
And on the seventh day Elohim completed His work which He had done, and He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had done.
#### 34
And Elohim blessed the seventh day and set it apart, because in it He rested from all His work which Elohim created to make.