---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 2
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-06-16
status: draft
---
# Scroll of the Heavens and the Earth
## Chapter 2 
### The Creation of Man
#### 1  [gen\_c2v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v1.md>)
These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created — in the day that YHWH Elohim made the earth and the heavens.
#### 2  [gen\_c2v2](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v2.md>)
And every shrub of the field was not yet in the earth, and every herb of the field had not yet sprung up—for YHWH Elohim had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was no man to till the ground.
#### 3  [gen\_c2v3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v3.md>)
And a mist went up from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
#### 4  [gen\_c2v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v4.md>)
Then YHWH Elohim formed the man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and the man became a living being.
### The Garden of Eden
#### 5  [gen\_c2v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v5.md>)
And YHWH Elohim planted a garden in Eden, in the east; and there He placed the man whom He had formed.
#### 6  [gen\_c2v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v6.md>)
And YHWH Elohim caused to sprout from the ground every tree desirable in appearance and good for food, and the Tree of Life in the midst of the garden, and the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.
#### 7  [gen\_c2v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v7.md>)
And a river went out from Eden to water the garden, and from there it separated and became four heads.
#### 8  [gen\_c2v8](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v8.md>)
The name of the first is Pishon — it is the one surrounding all the land of Havilah, where there is gold.
#### 9  [gen\_c2v9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v9.md>)
And the gold of that land is good; there is the bdellium and the onyx stone.
#### 10  [gen\_c2v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v10.md>)
And the name of the second river is Gihon — it is the one that surrounds all the land of Cush.
#### 11  [gen\_c2v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v11.md>)
And the name of the third river is Hiddekel — it is the one that flows east of Asshur. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
### Man to Care for the Garden
#### 12  [gen\_c2v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v12.md>)
And YHWH Elohim took the man and caused him to rest in the Garden of Eden, to serve it and to guard it.
#### 13  [gen\_c2v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v13.md>)
And YHWH Elohim commanded the man, saying, “From every tree of the garden you may surely eat.”
#### 14  [gen\_c2v14](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v14.md>)
But from the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, you shall not eat from it — for in the day that you eat from it, you will surely die.
#### 15  [gen\_c2v15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v15.md>)
And YHWH Elohim said, “It is not good for the man to be alone; I will make for him a helper corresponding to him.”
### Adam Names Living Creatures
#### 16  [gen\_c2v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v16.md>)
And YHWH Elohim formed from the ground every beast of the field[^1] and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them; and whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name.
#### 17  [gen\_c2v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v17.md>)
And the man gave names to all the livestock, and to the birds of the sky, and to every living creature of the field; but for the man, there was not found a helper corresponding to him.
### The Creation of Woman
#### 18  [gen\_c2v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v18.md>)
And YHWH Elohim caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept. And He took one of his sides and closed up the flesh in its place.
#### 19  [gen\_c2v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v19.md>)
And YHWH Elohim built the side which He had taken from the man into a woman, and He brought her to the man.
#### 20  [gen\_c2v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v20.md>)
And the man said, “This now is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called Woman, because from man was she taken.”
### The First Marriage
#### 21  [gen\_c2v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v21.md>)
Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cling to his woman, and they shall become one flesh.
#### 22  [gen\_c2v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 2/gen_c2v22.md>)
And the two of them were naked, the man and his woman, and they were not ashamed.

[^1]: Field here to mean open land, prairie, pasture - not cultivated farmland; outside the Garden