---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 3
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-06-15
status: draft
---
## Chapter 3
### The Temptation
#### 1  [gen\_c3v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v1.md>)
Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which YHWH Elohim had made. And he said to the woman, “Has Elohim really said, ‘You shall not eat from any tree of the garden’?”
#### 2  [gen\_c3v2](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v2.md>)
And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat from the fruit of the trees of the garden.”
#### 3  [gen\_c3v3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v3.md>)
“But from the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden — Elohim has said, ‘You shall not eat of it, and you shall not touch it, lest you die.’”
#### 4  [gen\_c3v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v4.md>)
And the serpent said to the woman, “You shall not surely die.”
#### 5  [gen\_c3v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v5.md>)
“For Elohim knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like Elohim, knowing good and evil.”
### The Fall of Man
#### 6  [gen\_c3v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v6.md>)
And the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was desirable to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise. And she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave to her husband with her, and he ate.
#### 7  [gen\_c3v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v7.md>)
And the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made for themselves coverings.
#### 8  [gen\_c3v8](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v8.md>)
And they heard the voice of YHWH Elohim walking in the garden at the spirit of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the face of YHWH Elohim among the trees of the garden.
#### 9  [gen\_c3v9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v9.md>)
And YHWH Elohim called to the man, and said to him, “Where are you?”
#### 10  [gen\_c3v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v10.md>)
And he said, “I heard Your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, and I hid myself.”
#### 11  [gen\_c3v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v11.md>)
And He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?”
#### 12  [gen\_c3v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v12.md>)
And the man said, “The woman whom You gave to be with me — she gave me from the tree, and I ate.”
#### 13  [gen\_c3v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v13.md>)
Then YHWH Elohim said to the woman, “What is this you have done?” And the woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
### The Curse
#### 14  [gen\_c3v14](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v14.md>)
And YHWH Elohim said to the serpent: “Because you have done this, you are cursed above all the livestock and above every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life.”
#### 15  [gen\_c3v15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v15.md>)
And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall crush your head, and you shall strike his heel.
#### 16  [gen\_c3v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v16.md>)
To the woman He said, “I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception — in pain you shall bring forth children. And your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you.”
#### 17  [gen\_c3v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v17.md>)
And to Adam He said, “Because you listened to the voice of your wife and ate from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, ‘You shall not eat from it,’ cursed is the ground because of you; in sorrow you shall eat of it all the days of your life.”
#### 18  [gen\_c3v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v18.md>)
And thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you; and you shall eat the herb of the field.
#### 19  [gen\_c3v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v19.md>)
By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, until you return to the ground — for from it you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust you shall return.
#### 20  [gen\_c3v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v20.md>)
And the man called his wife’s name Ḥavvah, because she was the mother of all living.
#### 21  [gen\_c3v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v21.md>)
And YHWH Elohim made for Adam and for his wife garments of skin, and clothed them.
### Man Expelled from Eden
#### 22  [gen\_c3v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v22.md>)
Then YHWH Elohim said, “Behold, the man has become like one of Us, to know good and evil. And now, lest he stretch out his hand and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever…”
#### 23  [gen\_c3v23](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v23.md>)
Therefore YHWH Elohim sent him out from the Garden of Eden, to work the ground from which he was taken.
#### 24  [gen\_c3v24](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 3/gen_c3v24.md>)
So He drove out the man; and He placed at the east of the Garden of Eden the cherubim, and the flame of a sword turning every direction, to guard the way to the tree of life.