---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 5
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-06-18
status: draft
---
# Scroll of the Generations of Adam
## Chapter 5
### Descendants of Adam
#### 1  [gen\_c5v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v1.md>)
This is the scroll of the generations of Adam. In the day that Elohim created man, in the likeness of Elohim He made him.
#### 2  [gen\_c5v2](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v2.md>)
Male and female He created them, and He blessed them, and called their name Adam in the day they were created.
#### 3  [gen\_c5v3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v3.md>)
And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and called his name Shet.
#### 4  [gen\_c5v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v4.md>)
And the days of Adam after he begot Shet were eight hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 5  [gen\_c5v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v5.md>)
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
### Descendants of Shet
#### 6  [gen\_c5v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v6.md>)
And Shet lived one hundred and five years, and begot Enosh.
#### 7  [gen\_c5v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v7.md>)
And Shet lived after he begot Enosh eight hundred and seven years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 8  [gen\_c5v8](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v8.md>)
And all the days of Shet were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
### Descendants of Enosh
#### 9  [gen\_c5v9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v9.md>)
And Enosh lived ninety years, and begot Qeynan.
#### 10  [gen\_c5v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v10.md>)
And Enosh lived after he begot Qeynan eight hundred and fifteen years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 11  [gen\_c5v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v11.md>)
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
### Descendants of Qeynan
#### 12  [gen\_c5v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v12.md>)
And Qeynan lived seventy years, and begot Mahalal’el.
#### 13  [gen\_c5v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v13.md>)
And Qeynan lived after he begot Mahalal’el eight hundred and forty years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 14  [gen\_c5v14](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v14.md>)
And all the days of Qeynan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
### Descendants of Mahalal'el
#### 15  [gen\_c5v15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v15.md>)
And Mahalal’el lived sixty-five years, and begot Yered.
#### 16  [gen\_c5v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v16.md>)
And Mahalal’el lived after he begot Yered eight hundred and thirty years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 17  [gen\_c5v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v17.md>)
And all the days of Mahalal’el were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.
### Descendants of Yared
#### 18  [gen\_c5v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v18.md>)
And Yered lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and begot Ḥanokh.
#### 19  [gen\_c5v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v19.md>)
And Yered lived after he begot Ḥanokh eight hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 20  [gen\_c5v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v20.md>)
And all the days of Yered were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.
### Descendants of Hanokh
#### 21  [gen\_c5v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v21.md>)
And Ḥanokh lived sixty-five years, and begot Methushelach.
#### 22  [gen\_c5v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v22.md>)
And Ḥanokh walked with Elohim after he begot Methushelach three hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 23  [gen\_c5v23](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v23.md>)
And all the days of Ḥanokh were three hundred and sixty-five years.
#### 24  [gen\_c5v24](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v24.md>)
And Ḥanokh walked with Elohim, and he was not; for Elohim took him.
### Descendants of Methushelach
#### 25  [gen\_c5v25](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v25.md>)
And Methushelach lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begot Lamekh.
#### 26  [gen\_c5v26](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v26.md>)
And Methushelach lived after he begot Lamekh seven hundred and eighty-two years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 27  [gen\_c5v27](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v27.md>)
And all the days of Methushelach were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.
### Descendants of Lamekh
#### 28  [gen\_c5v28](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v28.md>)
And Lamekh lived one hundred and eighty-two years, and begot a son.
#### 29  [gen\_c5v29](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v29.md>)
And he called his name Noaḥ, saying, “This one shall comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands, from the ground which YHWH has cursed.”
#### 30  [gen\_c5v30](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v30.md>)
And Lamekh lived after he begot Noaḥ five hundred and ninety-five years, and he begot sons and daughters.
#### 31  [gen\_c5v31](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v31.md>)
And all the days of Lamekh were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.
### Descendants of Noah
#### 32  [gen\_c5v32](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 5/gen_c5v32.md>)
And Noaḥ was five hundred years old; and Noaḥ begot Shem, Ḥam, and Yapheth.