---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 6
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-06-19
status: draft
---
# Scroll of Noah
## Chapter 6
### The Wickedness of Man
#### 1  [gen\_c6v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v1.md>)
And it came to pass, when mankind began to multiply upon the face of the earth, and daughters were born to them—
#### 2  [gen\_c6v2](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v2.md>)
that the sons of Elohim saw the daughters of men, that they were goodly; and they took for themselves wives from all whom they chose.
#### 3  [gen\_c6v3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v3.md>)
And YHWH said, “My Spirit shall not strive with man forever—for he is indeed flesh; and his days shall be one hundred and twenty years.”
#### 4  [gen\_c6v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v4.md>)
The Nephilim were in the earth in those days—and also after that—when the sons of Elohim came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty ones who were of old, men of the name.
####  5  [gen\_c6v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v5.md>)
And YHWH saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
#### 6  [gen\_c6v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v6.md>)
And YHWH was grieved that He had made man on the earth, and it pained Him to His heart.
#### 7  [gen\_c6v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v7.md>)
And YHWH said, “I will wipe man whom I have created from upon the face of the ground — from man to beast, to crawling thing, and to flying creature of the heavens — for I am grieved that I have made them.”
### Noaḥ Finds Grace with God
#### 8  [gen\_c6v8](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v8.md>)
But Noaḥ found favor in the eyes of YHWH.
#### 9  [gen\_c6v9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v9.md>)
These are the generations of Noaḥ: Noaḥ was a righteous man — blameless among his generation; Noaḥ walked with Elohim.
#### 10  [gen\_c6v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v10.md>)
And Noaḥ fathered three sons: Shem, Ḥam, and Yapheth.
#### 11  [gen\_c6v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v11.md>)
And the earth was corrupt before Elohim, and the earth was filled with violence.
#### 12  [gen\_c6v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v12.md>)
And Elohim looked upon the earth, and behold—it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.
#### 13  [gen\_c6v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v13.md>)
And Elohim said to Noaḥ, “The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. And behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth.”
### God Commissions Noah to Build the Ark
#### 14  [gen\_c6v14](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v14.md>)
Make for yourself an ark of gopher wood; rooms you shall make in the ark, and you shall cover it inside and outside with pitch.
#### 15  [gen\_c6v15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v15.md>)
And this is how you shall make it: the length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.
#### 16  [gen\_c6v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v16.md>)
A window you shall make for the ark, and to a cubit you shall finish it from above; and the door of the ark you shall set in its side; with lower, second, and third stories you shall make it.
#### 17  [gen\_c6v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v17.md>)
And behold, I — even I — am bringing the floodwaters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from under the heavens; everything that is in the earth shall perish.
### The Promise of a Covenant
#### 18  [gen\_c6v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v18.md>)
But I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall enter into the ark — you, and your sons, and your wife, and your sons’ wives with you.
#### 19  [gen\_c6v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v19.md>)
And of every living thing, of all flesh, two of every kind you shall bring into the ark to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female.
#### 20  [gen\_c6v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v20.md>)
Of the flying creature according to its kind, and of the beast according to its kind, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind — two of every kind shall come to you, to keep them alive.
#### 21  [gen\_c6v21-22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 6/gen_c6v21-22.md>)
And you shall take for yourself every kind of food that is eaten, and you shall gather it to yourself; and it shall be for you and for them for food.
#### 22 
And Noaḥ did according to all that Elohim commanded him; so he did.