---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 7
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-07-02
status: draft
---
# Scroll of Noah
## Chapter 7
### Noaḥ Enters the Ark
#### 1  [gen\_c7v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v1.md>)
And YHWH said to Noaḥ, “Come into the ark, you and all your household, for I have seen you as righteous before Me in this generation.”
#### 2  [gen\_c7v2-3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v2-3.md>)
Of every clean beast you shall take for yourself seven pairs — a male and his mate; and of the beast that is not clean, two — a male and his mate.
#### 3 
Also of the flying creature of the heavens, seven pairs — male and female — to keep seed alive on the face of all the earth.
#### 4  [gen\_c7v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v4.md>)
For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and I will blot out from upon the face of the ground every living thing that I have made.
#### 5  [gen\_c7v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v5.md>)
And Noaḥ did according to all that YHWH commanded him.
#### 6  [gen\_c7v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v6.md>)
And Noaḥ was six hundred years old when the floodwaters came upon the earth.
#### 7  [gen\_c7v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v7.md>)
And Noaḥ went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
#### 8  [gen\_c7v8-9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v8-9.md>)
Of the clean beasts, and of the beasts that are not clean, and of the flying creatures, and of everything that creeps upon the ground —
#### 9  
two by two, they came to Noaḥ into the ark, male and female, as Elohim had commanded Noaḥ.
#### 10  [gen\_c7v10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v10.md>)
And it came to pass, after the seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
#### 11  [gen\_c7v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v11.md>)
In the six hundredth year of Noaḥ’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month — on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened.
#### 12  [gen\_c7v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v12.md>)
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
#### 13  [gen\_c7v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v13.md>)
On that very day, Noaḥ entered — and Shem, and Ḥam, and Yapheth, the sons of Noaḥ, and Noaḥ’s wife, and the three wives of his sons with them — into the ark.
#### 14  [gen\_c7v14-15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v14-15.md>)
They and every beast after its kind, and all the livestock after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth after its kind, and every flying creature after its kind — every bird of every sort.
#### 15 
And they went in to Noaḥ into the ark, two by two of all flesh in which is the breath of life.
#### 16  [gen\_c7v16](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v16.md>)
And those going in, male and female of all flesh, went in as Elohim had commanded him — and YHWH shut him in.
#### 17  [gen\_c7v17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v17.md>)
And the flood was forty days upon the earth, and the waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it was raised above the earth.
### The Waters Prevail
#### 18  [gen\_c7v18-19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v18-19.md>)
And the waters prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark moved upon the face of the waters.
#### 19 
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high mountains that were under all the heavens were covered.
#### 20  [gen\_c7v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v20.md>)
Fifteen cubits upward the waters prevailed; and the mountains were covered.
#### 21  [gen\_c7v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v21.md>)
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth — among the flying creatures, and among the livestock, and among the beasts, and among every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth — and every man.
#### 22  [gen\_c7v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v22.md>)
Everything in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life — of all that was on dry ground — died.
#### 23  [gen\_c7v23](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v23.md>)
And He blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the ground — from man to beast, to creeping thing, and to the flying creature of the heavens — and they were blotted out from the earth. And only Noaḥ remained, and those who were with him in the ark.
#### 24  [gen\_c7v24](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 7/gen_c7v24.md>)
And the waters prevailed upon the earth for one hundred and fifty days.