---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 8
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-07-02
status: draft
---
# Scroll of Noah
## Chapter 8
### The Waters Recede
#### 1  [gen\_c8v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v1.md>)
And Elohim remembered Noaḥ, and every living thing, and all the beasts that were with him in the ark. And Elohim caused a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided.
#### 2  [gen\_c8v2-3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v2-3.md>)
And the fountains of the deep and the windows of the heavens were closed, and the rain from the heavens was restrained.
#### 3 
And the waters returned from off the earth, continually receding, and the waters decreased at the end of one hundred and fifty days.
### The Ark Rests on Ararat
#### 4  [gen\_c8v4](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v4.md>)
And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest upon the mountains of Ararat.
#### 5  [gen\_c8v5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v5.md>)
And the waters continued to decrease until the tenth month; in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen.
### Raven and a Dove Sent Forth
#### 6  [gen\_c8v6-7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v6-7.md>)
And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noaḥ opened the window of the ark which he had made.
#### 7
And he sent forth a raven, and it went out, going to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
#### 8  [gen\_c8v8-9](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v8-9.md>)
Then he sent out a dove from him, to see whether the waters had abated from the surface of the ground.
#### 9 
But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot, and she returned to him into the ark, for the waters were still on the face of all the earth. And he stretched out his hand and took her, and brought her in to him into the ark.
#### 10  [gen\_c8v10-11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v10-11.md>)
And he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from the ark.
#### 11 
And the dove came in to him at evening, and behold, in her mouth was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noaḥ knew that the waters had abated from off the earth.
#### 12  [gen\_c8v12](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v12.md>)
And he waited yet another seven days and sent out the dove, and she did not return to him again.
#### 13  [gen\_c8v13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v13.md>)
And it came to pass in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, on the first of the month, that the waters were dried from off the earth. And Noaḥ removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and behold — the surface of the ground was dry.
#### 14  [gen\_c8v14-15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v14-15.md>)
And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry.
### Leaving the Ark
#### 15 
And Elohim spoke to Noaḥ, saying:
#### 16  [gen\_c8v16-17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v16-17.md>)
“Go out from the ark — you, and your wife, and your sons, and your sons’ wives with you.
#### 17 
Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you — of birds and of beasts and of every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth — so that they may swarm in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.”
#### 18  [gen\_c8v18-19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v18-19.md>)
So Noaḥ went out, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him.
#### 19 
Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird — everything that moves upon the earth — went out from the ark by their families.
### Noaḥ's Sacrifice and YHWH's Promise
#### 20  [gen\_c8v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v20.md>)
And Noaḥ built an altar to YHWH, and he took of every clean beast and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
#### 21  [gen\_c8v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v21.md>)
And YHWH smelled a pleasing aroma, and YHWH said in His heart, “I will not again curse the ground because of man, for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again strike every living thing, as I have done.”
#### 22  [gen\_c8v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 8/gen_c8v22.md>)
While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night — shall not cease.