---
formal_title: Bereshit (בְּרֵאשִׁית)
common_title: The First Book of Moses, Called Genesis
chapter: 9
translation: SWRD
date_created: 2025-07-02
status: draft
---
# Scroll of Noah
## Chapter 9
### YHWH Blesses Noaḥ
#### 1  [gen\_c9v1](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v1.md>)
And Elohim blessed Noaḥ and his sons, and said to them: “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth.”
#### 2  [gen\_c9v2-3](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v2-3.md>)
And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens — in all that moves on the ground, and in all the fish of the sea — into your hand are they given.
#### 3 
Every moving thing that lives shall be for you as food — just as I gave you the green plant, I have now given you everything.
#### 4  [gen\_c9v4-5](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v4-5.md>)
But flesh with its lifeblood — its blood — you shall not eat.
#### 5 
And surely your lifeblood I will require: from every beast I will require it; and from the hand of man — from the hand of each man’s brother — I will require the life of man.
#### 6  [gen\_c9v6](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v6.md>)
Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed — for in the image of Elohim He made man.
#### 7  [gen\_c9v7](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v7.md>)
And you, be fruitful and multiply; swarm in the earth and multiply in it.
### YHWH's Covenant with Noaḥ
#### 8  [gen\_c9v8-10](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v8-10.md>)
And Elohim said to Noaḥ and to his sons with him, saying:
#### 9  
“As for Me — behold, I establish My covenant with you and with your seed after you,
#### 10  
and with every living creature that is with you — of the birds, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you, of all that go out of the ark — for every beast of the earth.”
#### 11  [gen\_c9v11](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v11.md>)
“And I will establish My covenant with you, and never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood; and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth.”
### The Rainbow
#### 12  [gen\_c9v12-13](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v12-13.md>)
And Elohim said: “This is the sign of the covenant which I make between Me and you, and every living soul that is with you, for perpetual generations:
#### 13  
I have set My bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of the covenant between Me and the earth.”
#### 14  [gen\_c9v14-15](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v14-15.md>)
And it shall come to pass, when I bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the cloud,
#### 15  
then I will remember My covenant, which is between Me and you and every living soul of all flesh; and the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh.
#### 16  [gen\_c9v16-17](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v16-17.md>)
And the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will see it, to remember the everlasting covenant between Elohim and every living soul of all flesh that is upon the earth.
#### 17  
And Elohim said to Noaḥ: “This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between Me and all flesh that is upon the earth.”
#### 18  [gen\_c9v18](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v18.md>)
And the sons of Noaḥ who went out of the ark were Shem, and Ḥam, and Yephet; and Ḥam — he is the father of Kenaʿan.
#### 19  [gen\_c9v19](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v19.md>)
These three were the sons of Noaḥ, and from them was the whole earth overspread.
### Noaḥ's Drunkeness
#### 20  [gen\_c9v20](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v20.md>)
And Noaḥ began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard.
#### 21  [gen\_c9v21](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v21.md>)
And he drank of the wine, and became drunk, and uncovered himself inside his tent.
#### 22  [gen\_c9v22](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v22.md>)
And Ḥam, the father of Kenaʿan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside.
#### 23  [gen\_c9v23](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v23.md>)
And Shem and Yephet took the garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. And their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father’s nakedness.
#### 24  [gen\_c9v24](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v24.md>)
And Noaḥ awoke from his wine, and he knew what his younger son had done to him.
### Kenaʿan Cursed
#### 25  [gen\_c9v25](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v25.md>)
And he said: “Cursed be Kenaʿan! A servant of servants shall he be to his brothers.”
#### 26  [gen\_c9v26-27](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v26-27.md>)
And he said: “Blessed be YHWH, Elohim of Shem; and let Kenaʿan be his servant.”
#### 27  
“May Elohim enlarge Yephet, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem; and let Kenaʿan be his servant.”
#### 28  [gen\_c9v28-29](<../../notes/genesis/chapter 9/gen_c9v28-29.md>)
And Noaḥ lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
#### 29  
And all the days of Noaḥ were nine hundred and fifty years — and he died.